# QR-util
A command-line utility for generating QR codes which store text!

## How to Use
### Help
To view the help text for qrutil use:

```qrutil --help```

or

```qrutil -h```

### Store User Input
Here is one simple way of generating a qr code from user input. Run the following:

```qrutil qrcode.bmp```

which will generate a qr code stored to the file `qrcode.bmp`. Then enter the data you want to generate. To generate the code, press ENTER then ctrl+D (or ctrl+Z on Windows).

### Piping Data
Alternatively, you can pipe your text into qrutil. For instance, if you wanted to generate a qr code which stored the text `hello world` in the qr code file named `qrcode.bmp`, you could run the following:

```echo "hello world" | qrutil qrcode.bmp```

Or, if you wanted to generate a qr code which stored 20 random bytes, you could run this:

```head -c 20 /dev/urandom | qrutil qrcode.bmp```

### Upscaling
If you view the output files generated by such commands with an image viewer, you may see that the images are blurred. This is because each square of the qr code by default occupies one pixel. This can be changed, however, using the upscaling argument:

```echo "hello world" | qrutil -u 10 qrcode.bmp```

This will generate a qr code in which instead each qr code sqare occupies a 10 pixel by 10 pixel area.

### Error Correction
By default, qrutil tries to generate the smallest qr code it can. However, qr codes support 4 modes of error correction which can make qr codes more robust to damage. In qrutil, an error correction level of `4` corrects for the most errors. On the other hand, a qr code with error correction level of `1` would not withstand as much damage. To specify the error correction level, use the `-c` option:

```echo "hello world" | qrutil -c 4 qrcode.bmp```

This would ensure that the qr code which is generated has the highest level of error correction.

### Version number
There are 40 versions of qr codes (1-40), with increasing versions being bigger and able to store more data. You can force qrutil to use a specific version using the `-v` option:

```echo "hello world" | qrutil -v 40 qrcode.bmp```

This would make a very big qr code which just stores the text `hello world`. Note that bigger qr codes are significantly harder to scan using qr code scanners.

### Verbose mode
qrutil can print out information about the qr code it generates. Use the `--verbose` option:

```echo "hello world" | qrutil --verbose qrcode.bmp```

which would output:

```
Version: 1
Error Correction: 3
Mask: 5
Upscaling: 1
```

If you generate a qr code which can't be read, or you find any other bugs regarding qrutil then feel free to raise an issue!
